# Abstract 

Functional programming is a subset of programming based upon Lambda calculus, it treats programming in a mathematical sense where the fundamental building block of the program are functions and data is immutable. Nix is a purely functional package manager used to create reproducible binaries and development environments, it treats packages, and program dependencies as immutable values that are built by pure functions and controlled by a lock file. Nix leverages *nixpkgs*, an open source collection of over 120,000 software packages that can be installed with the Nix, making its GitHub repository on the largest and most active in the world. In this work we will be reviewing nixpkgs and how open source software relates to the arts, as both a means software preservation and distribution, as well as evaluating the technological sustainability of such open source projects by examining the licenses used for packages in the nixpkgs repository.

# Evaluating nixpkgs with Rust

The Rust code used in this project can be ran simply by using `cargo run`. It does not require Nix to be on the system as the names for all the packages found for the `x86-linux` platform are contained in the `pkgs.txt` and `pkgs.json` files. Due to the large number of packages, the rust program reads each name line by line and writes the output csv file line by line to reduce memory allocation.

# Visulising with Plotly

**Figure 10** is an interactive plotly graph which can be generated by the `graph.py` script. It only requires that 
[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) be available on the system, uv will handle the python dependencies outline in the header of the script.

If you are using Nix, they you can simply evaluate the flake in the repository and load its dev-shell to have both the necessary rust and python dependencies with the command `nix develop`.
